After some manipulation he managed to get the bunch between the heels of his mittened hands.  In this fashion he carried it to his mouth.  The ice crackled and snapped when by a violent effort he opened his mouth.  He drew the lower jaw in, curled the upper lip out of the way, and scraped the bunch with his upper teeth in order to separate a match.  He succeeded in getting one, which he dropped on his lap.  He was no better off.  He could not pick it up.  Then he devised a way.  He picked it up in his teeth and scratched it on his leg.  Twenty times he scratched before he succeeded in lighting it.  As it flamed he held it with his teeth to the birch-bark.  But the burning brimstone went up his nostrils and into his lungs, causing him to cough spasmodically.  The match fell into the snow and went out.

---

His theory of running until he reached camp and the boys had one flaw in it: he lacked the endurance.  Several times he stumbled, and finally he tottered, crumpled up, and fell.  When he tried to rise, he failed.  He must sit and rest, he decided, and next time he would merely walk and keep on going.  As he sat and regained his breath, he noted that he was feeling quite warm and comfortable.  He was not shivering, and it even seemed that a warm glow had come to his chest and trunk.  And yet, when he touched his nose or cheeks, there was no sensation.  Running would not thaw them out.  Nor would it thaw out his hands and feet.  Then the thought came to him that the frozen portions of his body must be extending.  He tried to keep this thought down, to forget it, to think of something else; he was aware of the panicky feeling that it caused, and he was afraid of the panic.

---

At 7 o’clock the coffee was made and the frying-pan was on the back of the stove hot and ready to cook the chops.

Jim was never late. Della doubled the fob chain in her hand and sat on the corner of the table near the door that he always entered. Then she heard his step on the stair away down on the first flight, and she turned white for just a moment. She had a habit of saying a little silent prayer about the simplest everyday things, and now she whispered: “Please God, make him think I am still pretty.”

The door opened and Jim stepped in and closed it. He looked thin and very serious. Poor fellow, he was only twenty-two—and to be burdened with a family! He needed a new overcoat and he was without gloves.